Blue Ghost Mission 1 Mission Retrospective. B. M. Tackett, J. A. Marlin, and  W. J. Coogan, Firefly 
Aerospace, Inc. (5900 Highway 183A Leander, TX 78641; [redacted-email] ). © 
Firefly Aerospace, Inc. 
 
 
Introduction: On March 2 nd, 2025, the Blue 
Ghost Mission 1 spacecraft completed a soft and 
upright landing at Mare Crisium on the Moon. Part 
of NASA’s  Commercial Lunar Payload Services, 
the spacecraft carried ten NASA payloads which all 
completed their scientific objectives. The mission 
ended as planned on March 16
th. Here we provide 
an overview of the mission and lessons learned.  
 
Vehicle: Blue Ghost leveraged Firefly’s 
composites and propulsion expertise to create a 
light-weight structure supporting a metric ton of 
propellant. This propellant fraction  provided the 
delta-V needed to deliver the ten payloads to the 
lunar surface. Opting for a storable bipropellant, 
the vehicle was able to take an indirect path to the 
Moon, proving out all key systems prior to critical 
maneuvers such as lunar orbit insertion. With 
400 watts of power, up to 125 kbps omnidirectional 
downlink over S-band, and 10 Mbps downlink over 
directional X -band, the indirect route afforded 
payloads additional data opportunities beyond the 
two weeks of surface operations. The lander also 
hosts a number of Firefly mechanisms. These  
include two two-axis gimbals and a surface access 
arm supporting five of the payload missions. Firefly 
performed assembly and integration of the vehicle 
in their Texas cleanroom, with integrated testing 
conducted at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
Launch and Transit : Blue Ghost Mission 1 
launched on a SpaceX Falcon  9 from Cape 
Canaveral, Florida, on January 15
th, 2025. It spent 
25 days in Earth orbit performing system 
checkouts, phasing maneuvers, and science 
operations. Four days after its successful trans -
lunar injection burn, the spacecraft performed a 
lunar orbit insertion maneuver to capture into a n 
elliptical lunar orbit. After 16 days of continued 
payload science operations, vision navigation 
checkouts, and orbital maneuvers and phasing, 
operators commanded Blue Ghost to perform 
Descent Orbit Insertion.  
Landing: Once in its Descent Orbit, Blue Ghost 
engaged its vision navigation system to determine 
its location and attitude and began Powered 
Descent. Utilizing D’Souza guidance, the vehicle 
autonomously used both its main engine and eight 
Spectre thrusters to shed orbital velocity while 
navigating to its target landing site. Once over the 
landing site, the main engine disengaged, and the 
remainder of descent was performed with Spectre 
thrusters only. As the vehicle descended, two 
hazard avoidance maneuvers were autonomously 
commanded by the vision navigation system. 
Ground contact was sensed by three of the four 
footpad sensors, and successful soft and upright 
landing was verified using IMU data. LRO imagery 
verified successful touchdown 5 8 meters from the 
targeted landing ellipse.  
Lessons Learned: The team documented and 
dispositioned almost 60 anomalies during the 
mission. As an example, o ur landing location near 
a crater combined with regolith accumulation on 
radiating surfaces caused temperature  
exceedances over the course of the lunar day, 
requiring an expansion of our planned quiescent 
period and innovative strategies such as using our 
patch array antenna as a sunshade.  
End Of Mission : As intended, Blue Ghost 
operated five hours after the end of the lunar day, 
sending back photos of the sunset and possible 
dust levitation, a phenomenon first reported by 
Apollo astronauts. Eventually , the batteries 
depleted, and the lander avionics and radios shut 
down. The mission was concluded as Blue Ghost 
was not designed to survive the cold lunar night.  
Looking Forward: Firefly engineers are already 
implementing lessons learned for BGM2, which will 
carry the LuSEE Night radio telescope to the far 
side of the Moon in  2026. This mission, and the 
recently awarded BGM3, add transfer stage s, 
orbital relay s, and rovers  to the architecture, 
expanding the national capability and toolset at the 
Moon, building hope for bright future of 
commercial lunar exploration and science.  
1958.pdf
57th LPSC (2026)
