Press Release
                                                                                   July 15, 2026
                                                                                     ispace, inc.

                         ispace-U.S. Update on Contract with Draper

DENVER—July 15, 2026—ispace technologies U.S., (ispace-U.S.) an American lunar exploration
company and subsidiary of ispace, inc. (ispace) (TOKYO: 9348), and Draper, a non-profit
research, development and manufacturing company, today announced that Draper has
mutually agreed with NASA to end the Commercial Lunar Payload Services (CLPS) task order CP-
12.

Since July 2022, ispace-U.S. served as a subcontractor to Draper to provide a lunar lander
transportation service for NASA’s CLPS task order CP-12. Following the agreement with NASA
on the primary contract, Draper and ispace-U.S. expects the mutual termination of the
subcontract between the two companies.

In April 2026, NASA announced its plan to launch the next Commercial Lunar Payload Services
program (CLPS 2.0). Under the new framework, NASA is expected to increase the task order
award cadence, resulting in more frequent lunar landings. ispace-U.S. plans to collaborate with
NASA and propose to the CLPS 2.0 requirements, continuing to pursue its mission and the
growth of the lunar economy.

ispace and ispace-U.S. are developing lunar landers and lunar infrastructure with a vision to
create the cislunar economy. ispace was the first commercial company to launch a fully
privately funded mission to the Moon in December 2022. The company is now manufacturing
and assembling its next generation ULTRA lunar lander to support future missions for
government and private customers. Its next lunar landing mission is scheduled for 2028.

Statement of Elizabeth Kryst, CEO of ispace-U.S.
“ispace-U.S. remains dedicated to providing high-quality, high-frequency and low-cost
transportation services to the lunar surface for the American market. The company's
spaceflight heritage and Colorado-based assembly, integration and testing position us uniquely
to meet the needs of our customers. This reflects a long-term strategy to engage with U.S.
government, industry and commercial partners across the lunar exploration ecosystem to
provide best in class services," said Elizbeth Kryst, CEO of ispace-U.S.
