--- page 1 ---
 
 
LEMS-A3: THE LUNAR ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING STATION—AN ARTEMIS III DEPLOYED 
INSTRUMENT.  D. DellaGiustina1, N. Schmerr2, M. Benna3,4, N. McCall4, A. Marusiak1, V. J. Bray1, S. Bailey1, P. 
K. Byrne5, B. Avenson6, D. Kim6, and the Artemis III Science Team. 1University of Arizona ([email-redacted]-
zona.edu), 2University of Maryland, College Park3, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, 4NASA Goddard 
Space Flight Center, 5Washington University in St. Louis, 6Silicon Audio Inc.
Introduction: A detailed picture of the Moon’s in-
terior has evolved from measurements taken during the 
Apollo era. The Apollo Lunar Surface Experiment 
Packages (ALSEPs) formed a four-station passive seis-
mic network that was deployed by astronauts on the 
nearside of the Moon and returned the first-ever seismic 
dataset for another body in the Solar System [1]. The 
ALSEP seismometers established that the Moon is a 
seismically active body, recording over 13,000 moon-
quakes [2, 3] over the seven years the network was op-
erational. Studies of the Apollo moonquake dataset rev-
olutionized our understanding of the lunar interior, 
providing estimates for lunar crustal thickness and lay-
ering beneath the stations [4–6], a preliminary seismic 
wave velocity and the bulk structure and composition 
for the lunar mantle [7, 8], and estimates for the size, 
state, and composition of the lunar core [9, 10].  
Despite these accomplishments, our current under-
standing of the lunar interior is biased towards the near-
side, equatorial, geographic location of the ALSEP net-
work, with few detections of farside seismicity and seis-
mic observations situated primarily above the structure 
of the anomalous nearside Procellarum KREEP Terrane 
(PKT). The Lunar Environment Monitoring Station for 
Artemis III (LEMS-A3) is a selected Deployed Instru-
ment for Artemis III (A3), that when deployed near the 
lunar South Pole at the margin of the South Pole–Aitken 
basin (SPA), will provide new insights into a lunar lo-
cation that remains seismically unexplored. 
Mission Design: LEMS-A3 is a compact, autono-
mous, and self-sustaining seismometer suite designed to 
carry out continuous (day and night), long-term, moni-
toring of the lunar seismic environment at the South Po-
lar region (Fig. 1). Once deployed on the surface and 
activated by the A3 crew, it requires no support (power, 
thermal, commanding, or data) from the Human Land-
ing System (HLS)/Starship or the A3 crew to operate. 
The LEMS-A3 geophysical station (Fig. 1) continues 
operations for a targeted two-year lifetime goal, long af-
ter the A3 crew departs the Moon, providing a long-
lived geophysical surface observatory. 
LEMS-A3 has three elements: (a) a three-axis Short 
Period Seismometer (SP); (b) a complementary three-
axis Broad Band Seismometer (BB); and (c) an Instru-
ment Suite Platform (ISP) that provides data digitization 
and storage, power, thermal, and communication re-
sources. Subsurface burial of the of the LEMS-A3 seis-
mometers into the lunar regolith by the A3 crew will 
provide thermal stability, improved coupling to the 
ground, and reduced scattered seismic noise, all issues 
that plague surface-emplaced seismometer packages. 
From the perspective of LEMS-A3 operations, any 
of the identified A3 candidate landing sites will be suit-
able for providing direct-to-Earth communications and 
sunlight for solar power, although optimal deployment 
sites may exist within each of the down-selected sites. 
 
Figure 1. The LEMS-A3 station design and deploy-
ment; astronaut and instruments are to scale. a) LEMS-
A3 is hand-carried by an A3 astronaut crew member and 
positioned on the lunar surface using a Sun compass to 
ensure capture of solar energy and communication di-
rectly back to Earth.  b) The seismometer suite; instru-
ments are stowed and deployed to the surface via c) a 
set of ribbon cables, shown here for Apollo, that carries 
signals to d) the ISP, which houses the avionics and bat-
tery, and allows the LEMS-A3 seismometers to operate 
continuously throughout the lunar day and night. e) A 
notional A3 crew seismometer deployment strategy, 
with examples from Apollo operations; SP will be de-
ployed into a core-extracted borehole and BB will be 
buried in a trench dug for geological sample collection. 
Deployment Testing: As LEMS-A3 will be in-
stalled by the astronaut crew, we conducted a prelimi-
nary series of deployment simulations in a University of 
Central Florida (UCF) Exolith Lab test chamber. The 
team studied the following three elements in the simu-
lant chamber under artificial low-angle lighting condi-
tions expected at the South Pole: 1) how to deploy the 
ISP into a highland simulant that replicates some of the 
mechanical properties of regolith; 2) the emplacement 
of the SP seismometer into a borehole using a mockup 
of the Astronaut Extension Tool (AET); and 3) the 
2410.pdf
56th LPSC (2025)
--- page 2 ---
 
 
trenching and burial of the BB seismometer (Fig. 2). A 
lunar weight, -shape, and -volume model of the ISP was 
built for the test, as well as models of the SP, BB, and 
AET that will be used by the A3 crew. Low-fidelity ge-
ological tools were used for the borehole and trench. On 
the basis of these tests, we established that, before bur-
ial, the crew will position and level the BB in the trench 
and capture its orientation with their camera. For the SP 
burial in the borehole, the crew member will need to 
capture the orientation of the AET before detaching it 
from the seismometer. At the Exolith Lab we also 
sought to demonstrate how photogrammetry of the de-
ployment site can be used to reconstruct the attitude of 
instruments and ISP, and we studied how the low-angle 
lighting impacted this technique. The lessons learned by 
the direct experience of the LEMS-A3 team at the Exo-
lith lab are being folded into our mission design. 
 
Figure 2. The LEMS-A3 team testing deployment strat-
egies at the UCF Exolith Lab. a) Trenching and burial 
of the BB instrument. b) Borehole extraction and em-
placement of the SP using a AET mockup. c) Photo-
grammetry reconstruction of the deployment (courtesy 
of Z. Morse). d) Positioning and leveling of the ISP into 
the regolith simulant chamber.  
Mission Science: All the potential A3 candidate 
landing sites enable new opportunities for understand-
ing lunar seismology. The South Pole affords us the 
chance to study seismicity in highlands terrane and ex-
amine farside moonquakes, neither of which were de-
tected in detail by Apollo. The three-month threshold 
mission and two-year baseline operation of LEMS-A3 
will provide a new moonquake catalog that contains im-
pacts, thermal shallow, and deep moonquake activity. 
The detection and location of 3–4 high signal-to-noise 
moonquake events, together with the application of sin-
gle-station data processing techniques developed and 
advanced during the InSight mission [e.g., 11], will pro-
vide new information on the thickness of the lunar crust 
and properties of the mantle and core. A particular sci-
ence objective is the structure of the lunar crust and 
mantle at the margin of the SPA, a basin-forming impact 
that likely heavily modified and thinned the local crust 
and deposited proximal ejecta blankets kilometers thick. 
The formation and modification of the SPA basin seems 
to have played a fundamental role in the evolution of the 
lunar surface, so evaluating the crustal thickness and 
layering, and underlying mantle will provide a basis for 
understanding the basin formation process and lunar in-
ternal evolution [12]. In addition, the LEMS-A3 station 
will be situated in a region of potentially enhanced vol-
atile abundance in the near surface and perhaps even 
deeper into the regolith and megaregolith. 
Finally, two years of monitoring by LEMS-A3 will 
provide a long-term assessment of seismic hazards to 
future sustained human exploration and infrastructure 
that will be built at the South Polar region. Ground mo-
tion could prove a threat to tall towers and structures 
and/or subsurface dwellings. LEMS-A3 is a technical 
demonstrator of a low-cost, self-sustaining, long-lived 
geophysical station at the Moon and could serve as the 
beginning of a global network of geophysical instru-
ments, i.e., in coordination with the Farside Seismic 
Suite (FSS) [13] and/or a future Lunar Geophysical Net-
work (LGN) [14]. 
Acknowledgements: The LEMS-A3 science team 
is supported by NASA Grant 80NSSC19K0767. The 
Exolith Lab at the University of South Florida provided 
the team access to their large test chamber. We thank 
Zachary Morse (Goddard Space Flight Center), who 
provided access to a Nikon camera system and con-
ducted the photogrammetry for the deployment testing. 
References: [1] Nunn et al., 2020, Sp. Sci. Rev., 
216(89), [2] Nakamura, 2003, Phys. E. and Plan. Int., 
139(3-4) [3] Bulow et al., 2005, JGR 110(E10), [4] Toksoz 
et al., 1972, Moon 4, [5] Vinnik et al., 2001 Geophys. Res. 
Lett., 28(15) [6] Chenet et al., 2006, Earth & Plan. Sci. 
Lett., 243(1-2) [7] Nakamura et al., 1982, JGR S. Ear., 
87(S01) [8] Gagnepain-Beyneix et al., 2006, Phys. of the 
E. and Plan. Interiors 159(3-4) [9] Weber et al., 2011, Sci., 
331(6015) [10] Garcia et al., 2011, Sp. Sci. Rev., 215. [11] 
Knapmeyer-Endrun, B. et al. (2021) Science 373, 438 
doi:10.1126/ science.abf8966. [12] James, P. B. et al. 
(2019) Geo. Res. Let. 46, 510 https://doi.org/10.1029/ 
2019GL082252. [13] Panning et al., 2022, 53rd LPSC 
(2678), [14] Haviland, et al., 2022, Plan. Sci. J., 3(2). 
2410.pdf
56th LPSC (2025)