A COMMERCIAL ROVER FOR THE LUNAR VULKAN IMAGING AND SPECTROSCOPY EXPLORER 
MISSION TO GRUITHUISEN DOMES.  J. D. Lawrence1, J. Bailey1, J. Cerny1, Z. Fitzgerald1, K. Klein1, P. Ng1, 
D. Sabahi 1, A. Shmavonian1, N. Steele 1, B. Vogel 1, V. Vendiola 1, A. Yaghi1, K. Zacny 1. 1Honeybee Robotics  
Exploration Systems (jdlawrence@honeybeerobotics.com). 
 
Introduction:  Firefly Aerospace is flying six 
investigations to Gruithuisen Gamma Dome (36°N, 
40°W) in 2028 for NASA’s Commercial Lunar 
Payload Services  (CLPS) CP-21 mission . The 97 kg 
science payload i ncludes the Lunar Vulkan Imaging 
and Spectroscopy Explorer  (Lunar-VISE) instrument 
suite. The Lunar-VISE investigation consists of  two 
instruments (17.5 kg total)  mounted to Firefly’s lander 
and three instruments (up to 16 kg total)  mounted to a 
rover, the first commercial rover  contracted by NASA 
through the CLPS initiative [1].  
Firefly Aerospace has engaged Honeybee Robotics, 
a Blue Origin Company, to provide the rover . Here we 
describe the mobile concept of operations and 
architecture in support of the Lunar -VISE 
investigation. 
The CP -21 Rover Mission : The Grui thuisen 
Domes on the Moon are thought to be silica -rich 
volcanic features – but similar domes on Earth  only 
form through processes driven by interactions between 
plate tectonics and liquid water.  The Lunar -VISE 
investigation aims to resolve  the mystery of how the 
lunar domes could have formed in the absence of plate 
processes and volatiles.  
The rover  will carry the Lunar -VISE (LV) VNIR 
Imaging Camera (LV -VIC), a multispectral camera 
and radiometer called Compact Infrared Imaging 
System (LV-CIRiS), and the Gamma Ray and Neutron 
Spectrometer (LV-GRNS). The rover will complete an 
up to 1.1 km traverse over one lunar day and operate at 
a radius of up to 500 m from Firefly’s lander. The 
onboard Lunar-VISE instruments will collect high -
resolution multispectral imagery  and map the 
morphology, composition, and abundance  of surface 
and near -surface minerals and elements  along the 
traverse [2].  
The Lunar-VISE team will also characterize spatial 
variability in geotechnical regolith properties along the 
traverse [2]. Both the rover and the lander -mounted 
Lunar-VISE context camera will provide high -
resolution observations of interactions between the 
rover wheels and lunar regolith, in the context of 
paired rover and drive system telemetry  (i.e., power or 
torque at each wheel). 
The CP -21 Rover: The rover is a four wheel, 
solar-powered vehicle with a rechargeable battery . It is 
designed to cover multiple km during the lunar day and 
can traverse 20° slopes. The rover uses skid steering 
with a dedicated drive actuator for each wheel to 
enable forward, reverse, and turn in place operation.  
Firefly’s lander provides a communications relay 
for science data and rover command and control. In 
addition to the Lunar -VISE instruments, the rover will 
carry high resolution cameras, lights, and navigation 
sensors for localization relative to the Firefly lander. 
 
 
Figure 1. The Firefly lander and Honeybee Robotics 
rover for CP -21 and the Lunar -VISE investigation into the 
geologic origins of the Gruithuisen Domes.  Image: Firefly 
Aerospace. 
 
References: [1] NASA (2024) nasa.gov/news-
release/more-nasa-science-tech-will-fly-to-moon-
aboard-future-firefly-flight/. [2] Donaldson Hanna  K. 
et al. (2023) LPSC LIV, 2806. 
 
1750.pdf
56th LPSC (2025)