--- page 1 ---
Lunar Environment Monitoring Station
(LEMS)
M. Benna1,2, N. C. Schmerr3, M. Sarantos1, D. DellaGiustina4, S. Bailey4, 
D. Gershman1, M. Horányi5, J. Szaley6, and R. Weber7
1 NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD
2 University of Maryland Baltimore County, Baltimore, MD
3 University of Maryland College Park, College Park, MD
4 University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ
5 University of Colorado, Boulder, CO
6 Princeton University, Princeton, NJ
7 NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL
--- page 2 ---
 It is a self-powered, self-managed, and self-
communicating flight system that provides all 
attributes of a science mission.
 It conducts science observations on the lunar surface 
continuously (day and night).
 It is fully autonomous, requires no assistance, and is 
agnostic to the method of delivery (CLPS or Artemis).
 It is designed to be easily deployable and to 
accommodate various science goals, instrumentation, 
and mission scenarios.
LEMS is a compact, autonomous, and self-sustaining instrument package that enables multi-year,
in-situ, monitoring of the lunar geophysical environment.
What 
is LEMS 
?
--- page 3 ---
Why LEMS? 
(1)
 Augmentation to the current capabilities of CLPS:
 Many key geophysical measurements require sensors to operate for long durations (several 
years), beyond the current technical and operational capabilities of the CLPS vehicles.
 The self-sustaining architecture of LEMS:
 guards the CLPS from having to survive beyond a few days on the surface of the Moon.
 provides the thermal/power/comm. resources for sensors requiring long-term operations.
 provides a simple and standard mechanical interface to CLPS.

--- page 4 ---
Why LEMS? 
(2)
 Ideal package for delivery by crewed missions:
 LEMS provides a standalone, all-in-one science package that 
minimizes crew workload during deployment. 
 Unlike the Apollo ALSEP:
 LEMS is a single easy to handle package
 doesn’t require fine positioning or pointing
 doesn’t require electrical setting up
LEMS all-in-one package
--- page 5 ---
LEMS Architecture 
 In its flight version, LEMS is designed to carry a lunar interior and exosphere science package 
composed of a Mass Spectrometer (MS), a Lunar Micrometeoroid Monitor (LMM), a Lunar Energetic 
Ion Analyzer (LEIA), and a 3-axis Seismometer (SEISLEMS).

--- page 6 ---
 LEMS manages its thermal and power states by alternating periods of low-power 
operations, during which the station is in partial “hibernation,” with periods of high-power 
operations:
o During “awake” periods, all science sensors are active and collecting data.
o During “hibernation,” only the Seismometer and Micrometeoroid Monitor collect data. 
 Operations start after station is on the surface and continue for the lifetime of the mission:
o LEMS is designed to initiate autonomous operation on the surface after activation by the CLPS 
lander or Artemis crew.
o The Seismometer and the Lunar Micrometeoroid Monitor collect data continuously day and night, 
while the Mass Spectrometer and the Energetic Ion Analyzer conduct measurements every 24 hr.
o Collected data are downlinked monthly via DSN link.
Concept of Operations 
(1)
--- page 7 ---
Concept of Operations 
(2)

--- page 8 ---
Electrical Development
o The LEMS team developed an integrated and power efficient Avionics electronics that enables autonomous and 
continuous operation on the surface of the Moon. 
o An ETU-quality Avionics and Power Electronics were manufactured and tested to validate system capabilities.
--- page 9 ---
Power Source Development
 LEMS sustains operations during lunar night using 1200 Whr Li-ion battery:
o Cell performance was characterized and qualified over LEMS internal temp range (-30°C/+50°C).
o The cells functional performance was also demonstrated for the cyclical operation power load 
expected over a lunation.
--- page 10 ---
Mechanical Development
 High fidelity finite-element model (with 
NASTRAN) was used to demonstrate system 
compatibility and positive margins to GSFC’s 
General Environmental Verification 
Standard (GEVS).
LEMS High Fidelity Structural Model
--- page 11 ---
Integration and Testing
 All elements of the LEMS system 
(including mass spectrometer and 
seismometer) were integrated into a 
high-fidelity Engineering Unit.
 The team used flight-like processes 
and workmanship to validate 
integration procedures and resulting 
schedule.
--- page 12 ---
Integration and 
Testing
 All elements of the LEMS system 
(including mass spectrometer and 
seismometer) were integrated into a 
high-fidelity Engineering Unit.
 The team used flight-like processes 
and workmanship to validate 
integration procedures and resulting 
schedule.
LEMS ETU prior to closeout and installation of thermal IMLI and launch lock 
mechanism.
--- page 13 ---
Vibration Testing
 LEMS was successfully tested along 3-axes for 
vibration at GEVS Qualification Level:
o Mass adjusted GEVS Qualification Level = 12.3 
Grms for 34 kg.
o Reponses measured by accelerometer sensors 
placed at critical location inside LEMS.
o Signature sine sweep tests were performed before 
and after each axis of random vibration testing. 
o Measured system responses are within predicted 
levels at all frequencies. 
Preparation for Vibration Testing  02/28/2022
--- page 14 ---
Thermal
-
Vacuum Testing
o Verify steady state operation at worst case hot 
and cold environmental conditions.
o Verify nominal daily concept of operation “day-in-
the-life” (both science and weekly communication) 
at worst case hot and cold environmental 
conditions.
o Take thermal balance measurements at worst case 
hot and cold environmental conditions.
o Validate that LEMS power and thermal systems 
are compatible with continuous self-sufficient 
operations day and night.
 LEMS was successfully tested for operation at stacked worst case hot and cold environmental 
conditions seen on the lunar surface. This test aimed to:
Preparation for Thermal-Vacuum Testing  03/08/2022

--- page 15 ---
Thermal
-
Vacuum Testing

--- page 16 ---
Summary of Environmental Testing Results 
 Demonstrated compatibility with launch environment with a dedicated launch lock system. 
 Demonstrated mechanical deployment post landing.
 Comprehensive Performance Tests (CPTs) demonstrated operability of all LEMS subsystems in flight-
like conditions (external temperatures from 60°C to -190°C).
 Temperatures inside the bus remained within operations levels (-30°C to 45°C).
 The total heat leak during lunar night (15 days) was measured to 1200 Whr, within the LEMS battery 
energy capacity.
 LEMS electronics accumulated more than 300 hours of uninterrupted and fault-free operations. 
--- page 17 ---
Take away message
LEMS provides
a compelling solution to start conducting needed long-term science 
observations at the Moon 
and 
a path to rapidly mature a unique longevity capability that expands the 
capacity of the CLPS program without levying additional requirements on the 
CLPS landers.