Blue Origin Mark-1 Payloads For Lunar Surface Science.  E. B. Wagner1, S.B. Martinez1, and J.A. Cortese1, 1Blue 
Origin (21218 76th Ave S, Kent, WA 98032; lunarsales@blueorigin.com). 
 
 
Introduction:  Blue Origin is committed to building 
a road to space so that the next generation can access the 
limitless resources of space and improve life here on 
Earth. With Blue Moon, the team has defined and de-
veloped a state-of-the-art lunar lander architecture to 
provide reliable, low-cost launch and commercial lunar 
transport vehicles that will enable a thriving cislunar 
and lunar surface ecosystem. Blue Moon Mark-1 (MK1) 
is Blue Origin’s single-launch, expendable cargo lander, 
designed to deliver payloads and multiple metric tons 
into lunar orbit and down to the surface of the Moon, 
providing safe, reliable, and affordable access to the lu-
nar environment. This sizable capacity is paired with 
significant power, thermal, and data services, and preci-
sion landing capabilities to any lunar destination, mak-
ing MK1 a market-leading platform for science, tech-
nology, exploration, and commerce.  
The MK1 Payload User’s Guide (PUG) [1] provides 
a technical point of entry for users of both hosted and 
deployed payloads, describing MK1’s performance, en-
vironments, requirements, interfaces, facilities, and op-
erations. Researchers can engage with interests in sus-
tainable lunar presence, novel scientific inquiries, 
demonstrating space technologies, commercializing 
services and products on the Moon, or engaging com-
munities back on Earth.  
 Figure 1: Blue Origin’s Mark-1 Lunar Lander supports 
up to three metric tons of lunar surface science payload 
 
Technical Capabilities: MK1 leverages the seven-
meter fairing of the New Glenn launch vehicle to pro-
vide large lunar cargo transport, including industrial-
scale infrastructure payloads. MK1 is designed to de-
liver up to three metric tons to anywhere on the lunar 
surface. The first Pathfinder Mission in 2025 will be a 
demonstration mission to prove out the design of the 
MK1 system. Follow-on flights will be available to pay-
load customers to meet research needs in biological and 
physical sciences, astrophysics, heliophysics, and tech-
nology maturation. 
Standard payload interfaces are available on both the 
aft module and top deck. Each interface is served with 
structural mounts, regulated DC power,  
RS-485/RS-422 data handling, and direct to Earth com-
munications. Additional optional services include active 
thermal management, offloading to the lunar surface, 
custom interfaces, and mission-unique design and anal-
ysis support. 
This talk will present updated plans and technology 
development efforts currently underway for MK1, de-
scribe how these efforts will serve the science and tech-
nology development community, and provide high-
level descriptions of how the research community can 
manifest payloads for lunar access. 
References: 
[1] Blue Origin (2023) MLMA-96737, Blue Moon 
MK1 Payload User’s Guide. 
5028.pdf
Lunar Surface Science Workshop 24 2024 (LPI Contrib. No. 3065)
